---
layout: post
title: IRC and chat with Gtalk (irssi, bitlbee)
category: computing
comments: false
---


For this part we will see how to communicate with the rest of the world. We will
use jabber protocol to connect to Gtalk (but several others are available, see at the end).
<!--more-->

First, we need an application for chatting. Irssi will be our weapon of choice. At first it was aimed towards IRC users but some applications provide a tunnel to. In most Linux and BSD distribution you can find one of these : it is called bitlebee. The latest versions support now MSN.

See the [xchat theme](http://www.irssi.org/themefiles/xchat.png) for an overview
of the final result.

## Setting it up
After the installation of bitlbee, a local server should have been start (otherwise, just start it with <ic>/etc/init.d/bitlbee start</ic>).

Then launch irssi. The first time, it will not connect to any server nor join any channel though. So we will connect manually to your local bitlbee :

``` bash
/connect localhost 
```

This will display some funny message from the developper. Now register an account (for the bitlbee server) :

``` bash
register yourpassword 
```

## Connecting with OAuth

Then you can add an Gtalk account:

``` bash
account add jabber youraddress@gmail.com
```

You can try OAuth identification with 

``` bash
acc gtalk set oauth on 
acc gtalk on
```

You should have received a private message by now. Follow the link and get the
confirmation code. Paste it in the window and it should connect automatically.

## Connecting without OAuth
For other protocols :

``` bash
account add jabber youraddress@hotmail.com msnpassword 
```

Finally, save your account with 
     
``` bash
register bitlbeepassword
save
```

This password is only used to register your bitlbee account. Do not use your
Google password.

## Configuration files
If everything is allright, your contact list should be displayed. However we want to avoid to type anything. In fact, the connection should be automatic. For that purpose, edit your configuration file in <ic>/.irssi/config</ic>.
First we connect automatically to the local bitlbee server. Add some line in the server list. It should look like this :

``` bash
servers = ( 
  { address = "eu.irc6.net"; chatnet = "IRCnet"; port = "6667"; },
  {
    address = "localhost";
    chatnet = "Bitlbee";
    port = "6667";
    autoconnect = "yes";
  }
); 
```

Then the connection to the bitlbee account (and thus to your MSN account) should be automatic. Edit the chatnet part :

``` bash
chatnets = { 
IRCnet = { 
  type = "IRC";
  max_kicks = "4";
  max_msgs = "5";
  max_whois = "4";
  max_query_chans = "5";
};  
Bitlbee = { 
type = "IRC";
autosendcmd   = "/^msg -bitlbee &bitlbee identify bitlbeepassword; \
    wait -bitlbee 2000";
}
```

Beware, it's your bitlbee passowrd so set the permissions accordingly. Restart irssi and you should be all set ! You can message your friends with 

``` bash
/msg apseudonym.
```

For more informations about the use and configuration of irssi, see <a
href="http://alexis.praga.free.fr/computing/2011/08/26/command-line-chat-2.html">this post</a>.

## Remarks

* To ignore messages from ServerMode :

``` bash
/ignore &bitlbee MODES
```

* For Google+ contacts, you should set :

``` bash
account gtalk set nick_format %full_name
```

* Other protocols you can use with bitlbee : Gmail, Jabber, Yahoo, Twitter and even Facebook (see <a href="http://wiki.bitlbee.org/HowtoFacebook">this page</a> for Facebook) ! 
* We have configured a local server but you can also use a public one. 

