A little post following the setup of Mutt : here are some of the tips I
have found for Mutt.

** Accents are not displayed
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: accents-are-not-displayed
   :END:
This happens when the charset is not correctly defined. Create the
~/.mailcap file if it does not exist and put the following in it :

#+begin_src shell
  text/html; w3m -I %{charset} -T text/html -dump; copiousoutput
#+end_src

** Desktop Notification
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: desktop-notification
   :END:
Everything is great but you cannot have mail notification ? I have tried
to used directly notify-send on Gnome, but it does not always work, even
when exporting the DISPLAY variable :

#+begin_src shell
      :0 ic:
      *
      | export DISPLAY=:0.0; /usr/bin/notify-send -i 'evolution' \
      "New Mail"
#+end_src

So I used a script done by [[http://www.miek.nl/s/803d2aaaa1/][Miek]],
somewhat modified. The result is
[[https://github.com/alexDarcy/scripts/blob/master/notify.sh][here]].\\
If you want to use it, don't forget to change the username from "alex"
to yours.

** Do not include yourself in Group reply
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: do-not-include-yourself-in-group-reply
   :END:
Set alternates in .muttrc. Every mail inside will be remove from the
reply.

** Forward attachments also
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: forward-attachments-also
   :END:
Use the bounce functionnality instead of forward.

** Marking all unread mails as read
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: marking-all-unread-mails-as-read
   :END:
Select all unread mails with T ~O. Then mark them as read with ;WO.

/Note: An unread mail can be tagged with N instead of O, so change the
commands accordingly./

** Migrating from Thunderbird
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: migrating-from-thunderbird
   :END:
If you have been using Thunderbird in the past, chances are that you
want to migrate all your mails to Mutt. However Thunderbird uses the
mbox format for storing your mails so you will have to convert the
folder to the maildir format.\\
Fortunately, there are several scripts for that. The best I have found
(meaning without special librairies) is this one : mb2md. You will find
your mail in the .thunderbirdfolder, in an 'Inbox' file. The path should
look like this :\\
.thunderbird/5iieiei68bdtk.default/Mail/yourserver/Inbox

For some informations about the two formats, see here.

** Start fetchmail at boot
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: start-fetchmail-at-boot
   :END:
I copied my ~/.fetchmailrc to /etc/fetchmailrc. Then edit the
permissions with

#+begin_src shell
  $ chmod 600 /etc/fetchmailrc
#+end_src

Finally, add to /etc/default/fetchmail the following :

#+begin_src shell
  START_DAEMON=yes
  CONFFILE=/etc/fetchmailrc
  RUNASROOT=false
#+end_src

Now you can restart fetchmail with /etc/init.d/fetchmail restart.
Beware, this has downloaded all of my emails again !
