---
layout: post
title: Git
category: computing
comments: false
---


Here is a presentation of the versioning tool named Git.
<!--more-->

This is a rather succint presentation and aims only to show some tips (think of
it as a reference). 
For that, see the presentation I made recently [about it](http://alexis.praga.free.fr/files/git_pres.pdf).

## What is really Git ?
Git is a versioning tool. That means it will record the changes of your project.
It is used mostly for code but there are other uses too. The idea is to allow
the user to go back, to test some ideas... in short managing the *version* of the
project (hence the name).

## Why should I use it ?
First, even if you are alone, it can serve as a backup (it saved my life several
times). Much better than archiving the code, as you cann see all of your the changes !
If you are working with other people, it is a must as it will allow you to
synchronize your different versions.  

Of course, it is not the only tool for that : there are also Subversion,
Mercurial, CVS... But there are three majors reasons for trying it. First, Linus
Torvald uses it for managing the Linux kernel therefore it can be used with
large teams. Incidentally, it is quite fast. Second, it is not server-based.
That means you have all the project on your hard drive and can do some
branching, merging (see below) locally. Also, it means you can create a git
repository without a server : it is just a folder.  Third, it allows to create
light and fast branches. These are different versions of your project in
parallel. Useful for testing small ideas.

This should get you started. For more informations, see the [reference
book](http://git-scm.com/book)
(which inspired most of my presentation).


## Misc tips
Cloning over ssh : 

``` bash
$ git clone ssh://user@server:port/absolute/directory
```

Git colors :
It is most likely you will not have colors on Git, for example in the log. This
comes from a pager issue and can be corrected by placing the following in
<ic>.git/config</ic>

``` bash
[core]
  pager = less -r
```


